Add Mammotion integration documentation (#41908)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/mammotion.markdown

ha_category:
  - Lawn Mower
ha_release: 2026.01
ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@mikey0000'
ha_domain: mammotion
ha_platforms:
  - lawn_mower
ha_integration_type: integration
ha_quality_scale: bronze
---

The Mammotion integration provides BLE and Wi-Fi connectivity with Mammotion products from Home Assistant.

## Prerequisites

Mammotion logins only allow one device to be logged in at a time. To use this integration you will need to create a separate account just for Home Assistant and share devices to that account.

To create the separate account:

1. Sign up using the Mammotion App with an email address you plan to use just with Home Assistant, SSO such as Google is not officially supported though Google email addresses do work.
2. Sign into your main account and share the devices you want to control with the new account.
3. Sign into the new account and accept the shared devices.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

Use your new account credentials in the the follw

{% configuration_basic %}
Email:
description: Your Mammotion account email
Password:

> description: Your Mammotion account password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Email:
    description: Your Mammotion account email
Password:
    description: Your Mammotion account password
```

{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Lawn mower

The integration will create a lawn mower entity to control the mower. This entity can:

- Pause/Resume mowing
- Return to dock
- Status monitoring

> ## Known issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Known issues

```

---
title: Mammotion
description: Instructions on how to integrate Mammotion robotic lawn mowers with Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Lawn Mower

> ha_release: 2026.01

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2026.2
```

ha_iot_class: Cloud Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@mikey0000'
ha_domain: mammotion
ha_platforms:
  - lawn_mower
ha_integration_type: integration
ha_quality_scale: bronze
---

> The Mammotion integration provides BLE and Wi-Fi connectivity with Mammotion products from Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Mammotion** {% term integration %} provides BLE and Wi-Fi connectivity with Mammotion products from Home Assistant.
```

> The **Mammotion** {% term integration %} provides BLE and Wi-Fi connectivity with Mammotion products from Home Assistant.

Reviewer: could you add a link to their product website?

## Prerequisites

> Mammotion logins only allow one device to be logged in at a time. To use this integration you will need to create a separate account just for Home Assistant and share devices to that account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mammotion logins only allow one device to be logged in at a time. To use this integration, you need to create a separate account just for Home Assistant and share devices with that account.
```

To create the separate account:

> 1. Sign up using the Mammotion App with an email address you plan to use just with Home Assistant, SSO such as Google is not officially supported though Google email addresses do work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign up using the Mammotion App with an email address you plan to use just with Home Assistant. SSO, such as Google, is not officially supported, though Google email addresses do work.
```

> 2. Sign into your main account and share the devices you want to control with the new account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Sign in to your main account and share the devices you want to control with the new account.
```

> 3. Sign into the new account and accept the shared devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Sign in to the new account and accept the shared devices.
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> Use your new account credentials in the the follw

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use your new account credentials during setup:
```

{% configuration_basic %}
Email:
    description: Your Mammotion account email
Password:
    description: Your Mammotion account password
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## Lawn mower

> The integration will create a lawn mower entity to control the mower. This entity can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration creates a lawn mower entity to control the mower. This entity can:
```

- Pause/Resume mowing
- Return to dock
- Status monitoring

> {% enddetails %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Known issues

> Because Home Assistant now talks to your device, this can sometimes cause issues with making changes using the Mammotion App, though the integration will stop communicating when it sees the device is in setup states, the device will continue to work as expected even if you see a delay visually on your phone when setting up zones, areas or channels. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Home Assistant now talks to your device, this can sometimes cause issues with making changes using the Mammotion App. The integration stops communicating when it sees the device is in setup state. However, the device continues to work in the background, even if you notice a delay on your phone when setting up zones, areas, or channels. 
```
Not sure if I fully understood this section. Tried to rephrase it a bit. Please feel free to change it if the edited version is incorrect.

Author: Thank you, there are a lot of device states E.g create boundary, create zone, create boundary, lock, mowing etc. I'll review this shortly

Author: I've updated it and tried to make it clearer, please take a look and let me know if it makes better sense
